Attentive Tag integration (#621)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/marketing/attentive-tag.mdx

</div>

### E-Commerce events

RudderStack converts the following e-commerce events to the corresponding Attentive Tag events:

| RudderStack event | Attentive Tag event |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|
| Product List Viewed <br /> Product Viewed | `product-view` |
| Product Added | `add-to-cart` |
| Order Completed | `purchase` |

#### Product List Viewed

The `Product List Viewed` event properties are mapped to the following Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties.products.$.product_id` | `productId` | Required |
| `properties.products.$.price` | `value` | Required |
| `properties.products.$.variant` | `productVariantId` | Required |

> | `properties.products.$.price` | `currency` | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `properties.products.$.currency` | `currency` | Optional |
```

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

#### Order Completed

The `Order Completed` event properties are mapped to the following Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties.products.$.variant` | `productVariantId` |  Required |
| `properties.products.$.product_id` | `productId` | Required |
| `properties.products.$.price` | `value` | Required |

> | `properties.products.$.price` | `currency` | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `properties.products.$.currency` | `currency` | Optional |
```

- **API Key**: Enter the API key present in the app you have created in the Attentive dashboard.
- **Sign Up Source Id**: Enter the Sign-up method's ID present in the **Sign-up Units** option in the Attentive dashboard.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on getting the API Key and Sign Up Source Id, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
</div>
  
## Identify

You can choose to subscribe or unsubscribe a user from an Attentive Tag list using the <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/identify/">`identify`</Link> call.

The default behavior of `identify` call is to subscribe a user. To unsubscribe, you can pass `identifyOperation` as `unsubscribe` in the <code class="inline-code">integrations</code> object.

### Subscribe user

RudderStack maps the following properties to the Attentive Tag properties while subscribing a user:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided|

> | `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |

Reviewer 2: phone should be take from same parameters as email not limited to only `traits`

Reviewer 2: @ishachopra0401 this change lets fix it

| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |

> | `integrations.attentive_tag.signUpsourceId` | `signUpSourceId` | Required |

Reviewer 2: This is not required in the integrations object if its passed in UI

| `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

<div class="infoBlock">

> The <code class="inline-code">externalIdentifiers</code> property can be an array of objects - any identifier other than the specified ones, like <code class="inline-code">clientUserId</code>, <code class="inline-code">shopifyId</code>, <code class="inline-code">klaviyoId</code> and <code class="inline-code">customIdentifiers</code>.
> </div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The <code class="inline-code">externalIdentifiers</code> property can be an array of objects - containing identifiers like <code class="inline-code">clientUserId</code>, <code class="inline-code">shopifyId</code>, <code class="inline-code">klaviyoId</code> 
</div>
```

<div class="infoBlock">

The <code class="inline-code">signUpSourceId</code> property in the <code class="inline-code">integrations</code> object is given a higher priority than in the destination definition.
</div>

A sample `identify` call to subscribe a user is shown below:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rudderanalytics.identify("jbu3471", {
```

>   "email": "new-val",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "email": "juliee@email.com",
```

  "phone": "+1-202-555-0146",
  "customIdentifiers": [{
    "name": "string",
    "value": "string"
  }]
}, {
  "externalId": [{
      "type": "clientUserId",
      "id": "144"
    },
    {
      "type": "shopifyId",
      "id": "224"
    },
    {
      "type": "klaviyoId",
      "id": "132"
    }
  ],
  "integrations": {
    "signUpSourceId": "347393"

>   }

Reviewer 2: Need to mention all these are case sensitive and for correct mapping we expect the external ids in the above format

});
```

### Unsubscribe user

You can pass `identifyOperation` as `unsubscribe` in the <code class="inline-code">integrations</code> object to unsubscribe a user, as shown:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rudderanalytics.identify("jbu3471", {
```

>   "email": "alex@example.com",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "email": "juliee@email.com",
```
for user journey example keeping same email

  "phone": "+1-202-555-0146",
}, {
  "integrations": {
    "attentive_tag": {
      "identifyOperation": "unsubscribe",
    },
    "subscriptions": [{
      "type": "MARKETING",
      "channel": "TEXT"
    }],
    "notification": {
      "language": "en-US"
    }
  }
});
```

RudderStack maps the following properties to the Attentive Tag properties while unsubscribing a user:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided|
| `integrations.attentive_tag.subscriptions` | `subscriptions` | Optional |
| `integrations.attentive_tag.notification` | `notification` | Optional |

A user can unsubscribe from any specific channel by passing it inside the `subscriptions` in the `integrations` object. Also, they can provide the `language` in the `notification` inside the `integrations` object to change the notification language. 

<div class="infoBlock">

> Currently, only <code class="inline-code">en-US</code> and <code class="inline-code">fr-CA</code> are supported as notification languages and are case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: This should be info block along with the supported values for  `subscriptions` ref: https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/blob/431427becb44c81c98ca9743013084b4df61e2de/v0/destinations/attentive_tag/transform.js#L56

</div>

<div class="infoBlock">

Passing an <code class="inline-code">email</code> attribute does not locate or unsubscribe a user from SMS subscription. Similarly, passing the <code class="inline-code">phone</code> attribute does not locate or unsubscribe a user from email subscription.
</div>

## Track

<div class="warningBlock">
  
An event is not triggered if the timestamp is older than 12 hours.
</div>

The <Link to="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/track/">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture user actions along with the properties associated with these actions. 

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following `track` call properties to the Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `event` | `type` | Required |
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties` | `properties` | Optional |

> | `properties.timestamp` | `occuredAt` | Optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `originalTimestamp/ timestamp ` | `occuredAt` | Optional |
```
it is taken from "originalTimestamp"/ "timestamp" ref: https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/blob/431427becb44c81c98ca9743013084b4df61e2de/v0/util/data/GenericFieldMapping.json#L16

| `properties.eventId` | `externalEventId` | Optional |

> | `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

Author: @utsabc This is a mappings table, cant understand what information is redundant here

<div class="infoBlock">

> Make sure to pass the timestamp in ISO 8601 format.

Reviewer 2: Warning block

</div>

<div class="infoBlock">

The event type is case sensitive. For example, `Order shipped` and `Order Shipped` would be considered as different event types. Also, the keys of properties object should not contain characters, such as [`'`, `"`, `{`, `}`, `[`, `]`, \ , `,`]
</div>

### E-Commerce events

RudderStack converts the following e-commerce events to the corresponding Attentive Tag events:

| RudderStack event | Attentive Tag event |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|
| Product List Viewed <br /> Product Viewed | `product-view` |
| Product Added | `add-to-cart` |

> | Order Completed | `purchase` |

Reviewer 2: We are missing Product Viewed

Author: It's there in the first row, with Product List Viewed

#### Product List Viewed

The `Product List Viewed` event properties are mapped to the following Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `properties.products.product_id` | `productId` | Required |

> | `properties.products.price` | `value` | Required |

Reviewer 2: lets move product details at same place in this table i.e below

| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |

> | `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |

Reviewer 2: Rather than sharing this redundant mapping multiple times can't we mention this in the top saying that this is applicable for all track calls? i.e common

Reviewer 2: Got it make sense

| `properties.products.url` | `productUrl` | Optional |
| `properties.products.image_url` | `productImage` | Optional |
| `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

#### Product Viewed/Product Added

The `Product Viewed` and `Product Added` event properties are mapped to the following Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `properties.products.product_id` | `productId` | Required |
| `properties.products.price` | `value` | Required |
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties.products.variant` | `productVariantId` | Required |
| `properties.products.currency` | `currency` | Optional |
| `properties.products.name` | `name` | Optional |
| `properties.products.url` | `productUrl` | Optional |
| `properties.products.image_url` | `productImage` | Optional |

> | `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

Reviewer 2: For `product viewed` there wont be any `products` array in the properties all these will be available in root properties
ref: https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-ecommerce-events-specification/ordering/#product-viewed

#### Order Completed

The `Order Completed` event properties are mapped to the following Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `properties.products.product_id` | `productId` | Required |
| `properties.products.price` | `value` | Required |
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `properties.products.variant` | `productVariantId` |  Required |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties.products.price` | `currency` | Optional |
| `properties.products.name` | `name` | Optional |
| `properties.products.url` | `productUrl` | Optional |

> | `properties.products.image_url` | `productImage` | Optional |

Reviewer 2: Same things as `product list viewed` suggestions

---
# slug: "/docs/destinations/marketing/attentive-tag"
title: "Attentive Tag"

> description: Step-by-step guide to send your event data from RudderStack to Attentive Tag.

Reviewer 3: Just making it consistent with the other latest destinations.

| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             | -             | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Attentive Tag, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add a source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Attentive Tag**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click on **Next**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure Attentive Tag as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/attentive-tag-connection-settings.png" alt="Attentive Tag Connection Settings"/>

- **API Key**: Enter the API key present in the app you have created in the Attentive dashboard.

> - **Sign Up Source Id**: Enter the Sign-up method's ID present in the **Sign-up Units** option in the Attentive dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Sign Up Source Id**: Enter the signup method's ID present in the **Sign-up Units** option in the Attentive dashboard.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on getting the API Key and Sign Up Source Id, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
</div>
  
## Identify

You can choose to subscribe or unsubscribe a user from an Attentive Tag list using the <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/identify/">`identify`</Link> call.

<div class="infoBlock">
  
The default behavior of <code class="inline-code">identify</code> call is to subscribe a user. To unsubscribe, you can pass <code class="inline-code">identifyOperation</code> as <code class="inline-code">unsubscribe</code> in the <code class="inline-code">integrations</code> object.
</div>

> ### Subscribe user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Subscribing users
```

> RudderStack maps the following properties to the Attentive Tag properties while subscribing a user:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack maps the following traits to the Attentive Tag properties while subscribing a user:
```

</div>

A sample `identify` call to subscribe a user is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("jbu3471", {
  "email": "alex@example.com",
  "phone": "+1-202-555-0146",
  "customIdentifiers": [{
    "name": "string",
    "value": "string"
  }]
}, {
  "externalId": [{
      "type": "clientUserId",
      "id": "144"
    },
    {
      "type": "shopifyId",
      "id": "224"
    },
    {
      "type": "klaviyoId",
      "id": "132"
    }
  ],
  "integrations": {
    "signUpSourceId": "347393"
  }
});
```
<div class="infoBlock">
  
The  <code class="inline-code">externalId</code>'s are case sensitive and are expected to be in the above format for correct mapping.
</div>

### Unsubscribe user

You can pass `identifyOperation` as `unsubscribe` in the `integrations` object to unsubscribe a user, as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("jbu3471", {
  "email": "alex@example.com",
  "phone": "+1-202-555-0146",
}, {
  "integrations": {
    "attentive_tag": {
      "identifyOperation": "unsubscribe",
    },
    "subscriptions": [{
      "type": "MARKETING",
      "channel": "TEXT"
    }],
    "notification": {
      "language": "en-US"
    }
  }
});
```

> RudderStack maps the following properties to the Attentive Tag properties while unsubscribing a user:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RudderStack maps the following traits to the Attentive Tag properties while unsubscribing a user:
```

> | RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| RudderStack Trait | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
```

</div>

## Track

<div class="warningBlock">
  
An event is not triggered if the timestamp is older than 12 hours.
</div>

The <Link to="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/track/">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture user actions along with the properties associated with these actions. 

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following `track` call properties to the Attentive Tag properties:

| RudderStack Property | Attentive Tag Property | Presence |
|:--------------------------------|:--------------------------|:--------------------------|
| `event` | `type` | Required |
| `traits.email`/`context.traits.email`/`properties.email` | `email` | Required if `phone` is not provided |
| `traits.phone`/`context.traits.phone`/`properties.phone` | `phone` | Required if `email` is not provided |
| `externalId` | `externalIdentifiers` | Optional |
| `properties` | `properties` | Optional |
| `originalTimestamp`/`timestamp` | `occuredAt` | Optional |
| `properties.eventId` | `externalEventId` | Optional |
| `context.traits.customIdentifiers`/`traits.customIdentifiers` | `customIdentifiers` | Optional |

<div class="warningBlock">

> Make sure to pass the timestamp in ISO 8601 format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you pass the timestamp in the ISO 8601 format.
```

---
# slug: "/docs/destinations/marketing/attentive-tag"
title: "Attentive Tag"
description: Step-by-step guide to send your event data from RudderStack to Attentive Tag.
---

# Attentive Tag

[Attentive](https://www.attentivemobile.com/) is a personalized mobile messaging platform that helps consumers and companies to communicate with each other. It manages user subscriptions, triggers messages related to user actions, saves subscriber attributes, and sends personalized text messages. To utilize all the Attentive features, you need to add [Attentive Tag](https://docs.attentivemobile.com/pages/developer-guides/tag-management/the-attentive-tag/) to your website.

RudderStack supports Attentive Tag as a destination to which you can seamlessly send your event data.

<div class="successBlock">

> Find the open-source transformer code for this destination in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/).

Author: @ujjwal-ab Please specify the Github Repo link once ready so that I can add it here.

Reviewer: https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/attentive_tag

| **Connection Mode** | **Web**       | **Mobile**    | **Server**    |
| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             | -             | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Attentive Tag, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add a source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Attentive Tag**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click on **Next**.

## Connection settings

To successfully configure Attentive Tag as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/attentive-tag-connection-settings.png" alt="Attentive Tag Connection Settings"/>

> - **API Key**:

Author: @ujjwal-ab  Please mention the test creds for this destination so that I can look up these connection settings and also capture a screenshot.

<div class="infoBlock">

Currently, only <code class="inline-code">en-US</code> and <code class="inline-code">fr-CA</code> are supported as notification languages and are case sensitive.
</div>

A sample `identify` call to specify subscription channels and notification language is shown below:

```javascript
{
  "user": {
    "phone": "+13115552368",
    "email": "test@gmail.com"
  },
  "subscriptions": [{
    "type": "MARKETING",
    "channel": "TEXT"
  }],
  "notification": {
    "language": "string"
  }
}
```
<div class="infoBlock">

Passing an <code class="inline-code">email</code> attribute does not locate or unsubscribe a user from SMS subscription. Similarly, passing the <code class="inline-code">phone</code> attribute does not locate or unsubscribe a user from email subscription.
</div>

## Track

The <Link to="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/track/">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture user actions along with the properties associated with these actions. 

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript

> {

Reviewer: This can be omitted, as we are adding a sample track call below.
